---
title: Our paper on the possible contributions of blazars to the NGC 4151 neutrino hotspot is accepted by A&A.
date: 2025-01-06
tags: ["research"]
---
Title: [On the possible contributions of two nearby blazars to the NGC 4151 neutrino hotspot
](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09332).  
Authors: Anastasiia Omeliukh, Samuel Barnier, Yoshiyuki Inoue

The origin of the high-energy astrophysical neutrinos discovered by IceCube remains unclear, with both blazars and Seyfert galaxies emerging as potential sources. Recently, the IceCube Collaboration reported a \UTF{223C}3σ neutrino signal from the direction of a nearby Seyfert galaxy NGC 4151. However, two gamma-ray loud BL Lac objects, 4FGL 1210.3+3928 and 4FGL J1211.6+3901, lie close to NGC 4151, at angular distances of 0.08\UTF{2218} and 0.43\UTF{2218}, respectively. We investigate the potential contribution of these two blazars to the observed neutrino signal from the direction of NGC 4151 and assess their detectability with future neutrino observatories. We model the multi-wavelength spectral energy distributions of both blazars using a self-consistent numerical radiation code, AM3. We calculate their neutrino spectra and compare them to the measured NGC 4151 neutrino spectrum and future neutrino detector sensitivities. Our models predict neutrino emission peaking at \UTF{223C}1017 eV for both blazars, with fluxes of \UTF{223C}10−12 erg cm−2 s−1. This indicates their contribution to the \UTF{223C}10 TeV neutrino signal observed from the direction of NGC 4151 is minor. While detection with current facilities is challenging, both sources should be detectable by future radio-based neutrino telescopes such as IceCube-Gen2's radio array and GRAND, with 4FGL~J1210.3+3928 being the more promising candidate.