---
title: Our paper on the contribution of radio galaxies to the cosmic gamma-ray background radiation is accepted by ApJ.
date: "2022-04-26"
tags: ["research"]
---
Title: [High energy emission component, population, and contribution to the extragalactic gamma-ray background of gamma-ray emitting radio galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.14019).  
Authors: Yasushi Fukazawa, Hiroto Matake, Taishu Kayanoki, Yoshiyuki Inoue, Justin Finke

In this study, we systematically studied the X-ray to GeV gamma-ray spectra of 61 {\it Fermi} Large Area Telescope (LAT) detected radio galaxies. We found an anticorrelation between peak frequency and peak luminosity in the high-energy spectral component of radio galaxies, similar to blazars. With this sample, we also constructed a gamma-ray luminosity function (GLF) of gamma-ray-loud radio galaxies. We found that blazar-like GLF shapes can reproduce their redshift and luminosity distribution, but the logN-logS relation prefers models with more low-z radio galaxies. This indicates many low-z gamma-ray-loud radio galaxies. By utilizing our latest GLF, the contribution of radio galaxies to the extragalactic gamma-ray background is found to be 1--10\%. We further investigated the nature of gamma-ray-loud radio galaxies. Compared to radio or X-ray flux-limited radio galaxy samples, the gamma-ray selected sample tends to lack high radio power galaxies like FR-II radio galaxies. We also found that only ∼10\% of radio galaxies are GeV gamma-ray loud. Radio galaxies may contribute to the cosmic MeV gamma-ray background comparable to blazars if gamma-ray-quiet radio galaxies have X-ray to gamma-ray spectra like Cen A, with a small gamma-ray to X-ray flux ratio.
